# ThingsCon 2020 Day 2

Talent Tuesday

More-than-human fictions
Simone Rebaudengo

https://2020conf.thingscon.org/2020/11/26/more-than-human-fictions/

choppy audio makes for a slow start

uploading the presentation might solve the audio problems because sharing the screen does not peak the cpu usage, hence the fan does not vent heavily, therefore the noise reduction algorithm doe snot chop up the spoken word.

the upload limit is 30MB for the pdf :) so, low tech presentation would be great, wouldn’t it?

---

# presentation

The hidden lives of electronic objects, Dunne and Rabbie

“The Secret Language of Things”

Secret lief of connected things

nts: from electronic things to connected things’ is this the story of the new ontology? Post-electronic objects?

nts: the post convenience does not make sense then; things make life more convenient, material changes over time, convenience changes over time.

Corporations the first more than human things, they have been given rights

law is a more than human thing

“Deodorant, ow how we gave personhood to things in order to sue them.”

nts: (cannot remember)

- [ ] Follow @LostTesla on Twitter

early days of iot

blogjects—objects that blog

the forest that makes money by selling itself on the ethereal blockchain

have a blog, have a conversation, have a (crypto) wallet

nts: what is the s-curve?

human centred dieting might not work anymore

“products are people too”, Matt Webb

simplicity that trumps implications

centring so much on the user is superficial

(video: ML baseball pitch, learning how to throw a ball)

post-human-centred design

aim: zoom out of human only ‘users’

nts: i have arrived here in my research too, but how?

paper: from the 90s, user-centring rather than user-centred, Jon Brown

thesis: bred, the toaster, addicted products, 2012

worked with pachube
addicted products


more examples

becoming a goat for a week

marshmallow laser feast forest


project with automate farm: what is it like to be a thing?

Objective realities, 2018

uses VR

- be a fan
- be a roomba
- be plug

nts: staying with the simple things

collaboration with Bruce Sterling to write a story


what is like to be everything else?


part 3b


explore the narratives go the mundainity

nts: mundanity of things, how things resonate with us (from their perspective)

example: robot birthday (I have seen the video at the V&A Robot exhibition in Dundee)

cats have copyright on their youth videos?

what is actuallu the future when things are ore like people and people are more like things?


let’s abandon our human selves for the next hour…

EOP


I would like you to write a story

…about being things



nts: instructions and choosing a bit fast

My story on a weather station in the city by the water (Snapshot)

**A weather/pollution sensing unit (Jens Ewald, Northumbria University)**
**Who is the character (a paragraph)**
A little weather station with simple, essential, sensors:
Rain
Wind
Temperature
Recording the weather diligently everyday.
A sensor that makes it special is the water temperature.
Its cousin is out at sea by a lighthouse.
The cousin’s water temperature sensor turned numb a couple of weeks ago.
A slow narrator, being used to see far every day.

**What’s its context and environment (a paragraph)**
Up on one of the highest buildings in the city.
It is spread all around the building, even down into the water.
Near the water. A 360 degree view to see the weather coming from all directions.
Catching rain.
They can’t move.
The cousins became experts of Zen; the calm; just wait.
However, they notice the cult of numbers when the water temperature sensor breaks out at sea.

Winter days are dreek from time to time in this area. There is fog coming in in the morning making it hard to see where the sun cuts across the horizon. I can alway tell the temperature and where the wind comes from—there is always wind here. I put that in my storage. The house I am build on and around can be asked about what I have measured. There are other things in there which keep an archive. They come and go. New kids on the block. New shiny other things convince the house they are better at archiving and showing what I record. Well, that is a totally different story.
Others are looking at us from many places. How many degrees they ask, the degrees of wind, how many drops of rain? All of those questions… “Us” I say? Yes, sorry, I get side tracked from time to time when there is no change in the conditions and the wind is mellow. I have a cousin out at sea by the lighthouse. Tough place that is. I say, there is always wind here. Just imagine out there. Heavy winds. From time to time me and my cousin wonder why those who ask won’t go and see for themselves. This mood is very likely in the winter when the nights are long and the days are short. We have to wait long in the mornings for the sun to warm our shells, have the wind spin the cups of the sensor a bit and have a change from the night to the day. The sunrises are sometimes … well, carried away again.
Where was I? Yes, my cousin had its water sensor turn numb. “It’s alright” was the calm response. “It’s getting colder. That I can feel. I trust my cables to know”. The others started to write to us, ask again, and again. But my cousin could not tell other than: colder, warmer, like yesterday. The services, the people, the other things, weather stations—all of them thought my cousin was broken or even passed away. It was hard for them to not have numbers. I could feel the water temperature still. I could see the winter swimmers getting in, so it must still be above 1 degree. We knew it was a little warmer here in the bay, but that did not help, because we would lie if we would subtract like a couple of degrees. The etchings on our silicon were not made that way. They were simple: just measure and record. We love that simplicity. We rarely get “injuries” like my cousin has at the moment. We would love the other to begin to trust our experience and the inaccuracies of nature. Some things cannot be measured. The sunrises for example. But I am getting carried away again…


- [ ] Take notes on the experience of the workshop


“A deep solar panel”

notes

the stories are really nice to read.

we all read them out aloud

---

# Misc Notes

i remember there was an outline what we are going to do

I can start now: 

